Types of Submissions 

Critical Perspective / Invited Editorial 
An article on a topic of significant global interest to the computing education community, solicited through the invitation of the Editor-in-Chief. 
Approximately 1500 to 3500 words. 
Formally Reviewed -- See "Level of Review Guidelines" below. 

Contributed Article 
An unsolicited article on a topic of global interest to the computing education community. 
Approximately 2000 to 5000 words. 
Formally Reviewed -- See "Level of Review Guidelines" below. 

Bits & Bytes 
An unsolicited update on an initiative, situation, or development of global interest to the computing education community. 
Approximately 1000 to 2000 words. 
Formally Reviewed -- See "Level of Review Guidelines" below. 

Insights 
Periodic viewpoints submitted by authors at the invitation of the Editor-in-Chief. 
Approximately 1000 words. 
Reviewed -- See "Level of Review Guidelines" below. 

Peripheral 
Short announcements or other information relevant to the purpose of this magazine. 
Approximately 250 to 750 words. 
Reviewed -- See "Level of Review Guidelines" below. 

Letter-to-Editor 
An unsolicited opinion (op/ed) piece addressing a particular view on a topic of relevant interest. 
Approximately 100 to 500 words. 
Highly Edited -- See "Level of Review Guidelines" below. 



Level of Review Guidelines 


iThenticate 
All ACM publications expect to receive only new unpublished material. Immediately after author submission, ACM refers each article to a service called iThenticate, which generates a similarity index to indicate a level of originality. 

For other details and penalties, consult ACM's Policy and Procedures on Plagiarism. 



Information regarding each level of review appears below. 

Formally Reviewed Article (Peer reviewed, one- to three-month turnaround) 
Article must satisfy the ACM criteria of correctness and clarity of exposition. For ACM Inroads, this material should also contain elements of originality, novelty, and importance. 

Reviewed Article (Editor reviewed, one- to two-month turnaround) 
Article must satisfy the ACM criteria of correctness and clarity of exposition. For ACM Inroads, this material should also contain elements of originality and novelty. 

Highly Edited Article (Editor reviewed, one-month turnaround) 
Article must satisfy the ACM criteria of correctness and clarity of exposition. For ACM Inroads, this material should also contain elements of originality. 

Refereed Paper (Peer reviewed, six- to eighteen-month turnaround) 
Material must satisfy the ACM criteria of originality, novelty, importance, correctness, and clarity of exposition 
Not available for this ACM Inroads magazine. Consider submission to the ACM Transactions on Computing Education (TOCE). 

For a description of the level of review, consult the ACM document Policy on Pre-Publication Evaluation. 



The Special Characters Palette 

To insert a special character in your title or abstract, place the cursor at the appropriate point in your text, then click the character(s) on the palette. The character(s) will be automatically placed into the correct place in the text of your title or abstract. 

The Special Characters palette also allows you to add text formatting (bold, italics, etc.) to your title and abstract. To format a text in your title or abstract, place the beginning formatting tag (e.g., "begin bold") before the text and the ending formatting tag (e.g., "end bold") after the text. 

Use the "Preview" button to proof your text and the placement of the characters. 

