----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 199
TITLE: Rotten Fruit: Analyzing Malicious and Benign Android Apps
AUTHORS: Daniel Krutz, Casey Klimkowsky, Shannon Trudeau, Adam Blaine, Andrew Meneely, Samuel Malachowsky and Cesar Perez


----------- REVIEW -----------
Summary: 

The authors collect 64,868 Android apps from the Google Play store as well as 1,669 malware samples collected from several sources. They apply reverse engineering techniques to analyze each app using several static analysis tools, and record a variety of quality and security related information about each of them. Results of these static analysis, together with some basic app information are made publicly available.

Pros:

1. The paper includes mostly everything need for a data showcase paper, i.e., description of the data,  methodology used to gather it,  description of dataset usage, future research possibilities, and limitations of this data set. 

2. This paper is extended from their last year data showcase paper “A Dataset of Open-Source Android Applications”. But they include much more apps, which makes it a much larger benchmark data. They also include apps from well-known malicious application including the Contagio Mobile Mini Dump and the Malware Genome Project.

3. The paper includes one more static analysis result using Keytool, compared to the static analysis tools have been used in their previous data showcase paper.

4. The website/dataset is easy to use. 

Cons and suggestions:

1. I wonder if the data set matches with the title. The authors do collect some security related information, but the labels of apps are not clear. I am not sure whether all apps from Google Store dataset can be called benign apps or not. 

2. Similarly, I think the data set might be more useful for static analysis (quality analysis) on android apps rather than security analysis. So I am not sure how much it could help analyzing malicious and benign Android Apps. Especially, some papers in that area, e.g., “Hey, You, Get Off of My Market: Detecting Malicious Apps in Official and Alternative Android Markets” requires both static and dynamic analysis, which could not be done on this data because of the lack of runnable apks. 

3. The static analysis tools are almost the same with their previous paper “A Dataset of Open-Source Android Applications”.

4. Description of data collection methodology is brief. Some details are missing, e.g., data collection duration, how they collect the versions of apps. Are they keep crawling the app store during a specific period?

5. Schema of dataset is missing. Although the authors have provided a description for domains in their table.

6. Some potential users of your dataset may be interested to obtain the reviews and description of an app at the same time when the app was downloaded. It might be interesting to expand the dataset further.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 199
TITLE: Rotten Fruit: Analyzing Malicious and Benign Android Apps
AUTHORS: Daniel Krutz, Casey Klimkowsky, Shannon Trudeau, Adam Blaine, Andrew Meneely, Samuel Malachowsky and Cesar Perez


----------- REVIEW -----------
This data paper presents and describes a data set which consists of 64,868 apps from the Google Play store and 1,669 malware samples collected from several sources. 

Data has been made available in three sqlite databases: one for Google store and one for each of the two malware sources. However, the .apk files are not provided and the malware data too.

Therefore, only the results of a set of analytics and widely-known security & quality metrics, have been presented under: http://darwin.rit.edu.

The methodology employed for creating the dataset is explained along with the data construction and static analysis tools applied.

The source of the data is clearly indicated.

The data storage schema has been mentioned but unfortunately the paper lacks a description on that. 

Limitations of the works have been discussed but not all.

The collected data is not made fully publicly available. Hence, I am not sure to what extent what has been provided would be really helpful for the MSR community especially that crawling the Google apps store is not a difficult task.

Additionally, the static analysis part has been performed using open-source tools that can be easily run and applied.

Overall, I like the paper and its idea but not sure, given that the entire data set is not provided, to what extent this paper would be of a great addition to this MSR data track.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 199
TITLE: Rotten Fruit: Analyzing Malicious and Benign Android Apps
AUTHORS: Daniel Krutz, Casey Klimkowsky, Shannon Trudeau, Adam Blaine, Andrew Meneely, Samuel Malachowsky and Cesar Perez


----------- REVIEW -----------
In this paper the authors have mined apps from Google play store and three other malware sources to provide a detailed information about the apps like bugs, security vulnerabilities, and permission based meta (over permission, under permission etc.) All this data set has ben hosted in the website with some pre-calculated reports and a interface to run sql-lite queries. They have also given the raw dump of their data set. 

The accuracy of the dataset is very important, and authors have mentioned that they have taken efforts to maintain high accuracy. However, it would be helpful, if they could elaborate further on what steps were followed to maintain this accuracy. Since most of the static analysis tool can generate a good amount of false positives, the authors should explain how they were able to address this. A schematic representation (a diagram) of all the database tables in the paper and brief explanation of the same will help the readers understand the value of the dataset. I did access the dataset and downloaded the TableDescriptions.pdf, but the a schematic representation would make things much easier to understand.

One negative point is non-availability of the APK files which the authors have analysed. Since the APK files are not provided, validating some of the metrics requires download of the APK again. Another negative point is the association between the data they have mined and the "security" malware apps. I could not find any correlation or how the user can benefit from this data, or how exactly the mapping has to be done. With respect to the title of analyzing malicious and benign android apps, I did not find evidence or approach of the same in the paper. How is the dataset provided help researchers to leverage this data for this particular analysis?

The authors have taken effort in provided the dataset in a consumable format but I am not very clear (except on the permissions), how the other inferred meta are helping the larger research community in their future analysis.

Minor typos
2.Related Work : The did not study —> They did not stud
3.2 Jlint :  over FindBigs for its ability analyse -> over FindBugs for its ability to analyse